- [Instructor] Now let us understand
what the JSP life cycle is.
This is going to be very simple to understand
because by this time we already know
what the servlet life cycle is.
So this also can be viewed in two phases.
The first phase is when the first request comes in
for the JSP and the second phase is when
repeated requests come in for the same JSP.
Let's look at the first phase.
When the first request comes in for a JSP,
then the container is first going to
translate that JSP to a servlet file.
We've already spoken about this translation process
when we started discussing the JSP elements.
So that's the first step that the container takes.
Please rest assure that the container's going to
completely own up the responsibility
of translating that JSP to a servlet.
We don't need to do anything for this.
Once that's done, then the translated servlet file,
which is a .java file is going to
get compiled into a .class file.
Once this is done, now let's understand that
translation and compilation are going to happen only once
during the entire JSP life cycle.
And since the containers translates the JSP to a .java file,
this translated file is available
for viewing under our server folders.
We are going to take a look at it in some time.
So once the translation and compilation is over,
then the rest of the life cycle is
exactly same as it happens for the servlet.
So it is going to load and instantiate the servlet class,
all of that initialization activity is
going to happen again, it is going to call a jspinit method.
We spoke about this as well in one of our previous videos.
Since this is a JSP, the translated servlet
for the JSP will look a little different
from the servlet classes that we write.
So instead of the init method that you have
for an http servlet, for a JSP's servlet class
you have the jspinit method to hold all the code
for your initialization activity.
After that, it will call the _jspService method.
So that's the service method for the JSP class.
And then finally, whenever your application is
shutting down or you're undeploying it,
you will have the jspDestroy method call,
which is reserved for all of the clean up activity.
Now where are these methods coming from?
Let's take a look at that.
Jspinit, _jspService, and jspDestroy,
all of them come from a class called HTTPJspBase.
Now that's the patent for the translated JSP's servlet file.
Generally, when we write a servlet class,
we've always take the http servlet as out patent.
But when container translates a JSP to a servlet,
the patent is HTTPJspBase.
So that's where these methods are coming from.
So you as a developer can override the jspinit
or the jspDestroy and or whatever kind of initialization
or a clean up activity that you may want to do.
So basically, the code that is written inside
the scriptlet and expression element
is going to get inserted into the _jspService method,
whereas the code that you write
under the declaration element is going to
directly sit inside the servlet file.
That's how the JSP life cycle is for the first request.
For the subsequent requests, it's directly going to call
the jspService method and then it will serve
the request that the client asked it to do.
So now let us understand where
could we find that translated file.
So let me go to our server folder.
Let's open up that, which is D, software, tomcat server.
And under that I have already deployed the HPlusSample.war.
I've already exported my project into a war file,
dropped it onto the web apps directory,
and then started a command prompt in order to
start the server and it has already deployed my application.
Now when I access my application,
so let's go ahead to the browser
and access our application, which is this.
Let's say I click on the login,
so I'll access the login JSP.
Now let's go home and click on search.
Enter a search criteria so I have
access to searchresults.jsp.
Now let's see whether the tomcat server has placed
all the translated files under the server.
The translated files are available for viewing
under the work directory of tomcat.
You see this, this one.
So dive into it, Catalina, local host.
Go to your respective project folder, HPlusSample,
and under that dive into all org.apache.jsp.html
and you see that there is a login_jsp.java,
searchResults_jsp.java, those are the translated files.
So I'm going to quickly open them
with Notepad++ and let's quickly look at it.
So this is how the file looks like.
If you see the definition of this class.
Do you see, _jspinit and jspDestroy, those are the methods.
And then you have the jspService,
under which you have all our code.
Let's go down, scroll down further.
And that was our scriptlet code right, from line number 150.
That got inserted into the _jspService method.
And the rest of them, of course,
was written out by the out object.
Similarly, let's close this and take a look
at the other file, which is loginjps.java.
So you see that the class extends that HTTPJspBase patent
that we were talking about in the life cycle diagram.
This patent is now a separate method
under this translated file.
That's because this was inserted
into the declaration element.
But when it script and an expression,
everything went into the service method.
So that's how the translated files look like
in the case of JSP life cycle.